.\" Copyright Sergey Bubnov (c) 2019
.\" Copyright Igor "NIR" Chudov (c) 2019
.\"
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
.\"
.\"     * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"       notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\"     * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above
.\"       copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following
.\"       disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided
.\"       with the distribution.
.\"
.\"     * Neither the name of Sergey Bubnov nor the names of other
.\"       contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived
.\"       from this software without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
.\" "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
.\" A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
.\" OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
.\" SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.TH HADFS 1 "July 01 2019" "BSD" "Active Directory File System"
.SH NAME
hadfs \- mount AD configuration from LDAP as a FUSE tree
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B hadfs
\fBmountpoint\fR \fBhost\fR [\fBport\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B hadfs
is a software for mapping \fBActive Directory\fR settings stored in
\fBLDAP\fR database using \fBFUSE\fR (Filesystem in USErspace).
.PP
In order for \fBhadfs\fR to be able to get the configuration, it
must be authorized to do it via Kerberos (using \fBkinit\fR for
example).
.TP
\fBmountpoint\fR \- user-owned directory to mount filesystem
.TP
\fBhost\fR \- hostname of LDAP database
.TP
\fBport\fR \- LDAP port (default: \fI389\fR)
.SH FILES
LDAP tree elements are represented by directories and their properties
are represented by text files. You may encounter the following files:
.TP
\fB.chpwd\fR - Write-only file for changing user's password.
.TP
\fB.attributes\fR - Object attributes as a \fBLDIF\fR file.
.TP
\fB.attributes.json\fR - Object attributes as a \fBJSON\fR.
.TP
\fB.lasterrror\fR - File stored in catalog where the program was
started. There is no way to get human-readable error message from the
file system so this file stores text of last error message.
.TP
\fB.refresh\fR - The LDAP tree data is cached locally. You may trigger
cache update by 'touch .refresh' command invoked in the directory you
want to update.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Mount Active Directory domain settings into user-owned directory in
\fI$HOME/adfs\fR:
.PP
.EX
$ \fBmkdir\fR /home/user/adfs
$ \fBkinit\fR administrator@DOMAIN.ALT
$ \fBhadfs\fR /home/user/adfs dc0.domain.alt
.EE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR kinit (1),
.BR <https://www.altlinux.org/ActiveDirectory/ADFS>
.SH AUTHOR
This software is written by Sergey Bubnov.
Manpage is written by Igor "NIR" Chudov.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs to: <https://github.com/altlinuxteam/hadfs>
